The third episode of   takes place two months after we last saw Sean Diaz and his little brother Daniel escaping Beaver Creek, Oregon because of yet another plan gone wrong. There's a lot to get caught up on here, but Sean's journal does a good job of making sure you don't feel like you've missed out. The end of Sean's most recent entry reads, "It's not easy," and as I sat there a couple of hours later completely unable to decide how Sean should proceed in a high stakes situation, I couldn't have agreed more. The road has taken a toll on the brothers, but they've found themselves a ragtag group of friends and a makeshift community campsite in Humboldt County, California to call home. Their financial situation is also looking up thanks to a couple of not-so-legal jobs working on a weed farm. These were arranged by Finn, a hippie backpacker they first met back in Oregon who now works on the farm. The pace slows right down in Episode 3, and while that's reflective of life on the road, it means that having an investment in the characters and their development is essential in keeping you engaged. Fortunately, with a campsite full of colorful characters to learn from and bounce personalities off of, you get to learn a lot about who the boys are apart from one another and watch them discover who they want to become. For example, there's a flashback of a sibling tiff that leads to a conversation between Sean and his father Esteban, who asks his son to help take care of his little brother. The discussion is compassionate and respectful; Esteban tells Sean he's proud of him and asks him to go talk to Daniel. Sean does so and this moment mirrors the beats of the prior conversation. The reintroduction of Esteban weighs on your decision-making over the rest of the episode as you try to play the role of brother, father figure, friend, and keeper to Daniel and his supernatural abilities. The realization that there is no way to do all of the above is a frustrating reality for both you and Sean, and this adds nuance to your decision making. The environment is lovingly rendered down to the most minute details, and it paints a full and clear picture of what life is like with your makeshift community in the California forest. You can overhear conversations as you walk around the campsite, there's a chore list nailed to a tree, and there are giant redwoods to admire in every direction. There is a larger focus on the series' contemplative cutscenes set to an evocative alternative soundtrack, which underpins the coming of age vibe of the episode. With Sean and Daniel spending all their time around other people, there are few occasions for Daniel to use his powers, despite them having grown significantly stronger. While his abilities spark some interesting conversations and eventually shift the flow of the plot, they largely take a back seat to the rest of the narrative right up until they're used to cause some inescapable dramatic upheaval. As they've been used this way multiple times in the story so far, these moments begin to feel predictable--and though the implications are interesting, it's certainly a crisis you can see coming. Despite its supernatural themes, Life Is Strange almost always delivers an honest moment instead of a sensationalized one. There's something far more relatable about a teenager mumbling apologies after their "first time" instead of dancing down the street to the tune of "You Make My Dreams Come True," and it's these moments that truly solidify your investment in Sean. At one point, Finn tells Sean, "Memories are just lessons for the future." For a story that so rarely lets its characters escape unscathed no matter how you choose to act, it's a solid adage. The goal of making it to Puerto Lobos feels increasingly immaterial given the escalation of Daniel's powers and the hurdles in their way. As they say, the journey matters far more than the destination, and Sean and Daniel's journey is one that continues to intrigue.  